We're gonna take a few different things
we talked about from the original link
a little, I guess.
The one we had with cheese puffs and
an apple, and a little bit with, like we
saw the broadcasting before and messages,
we talked about that, and we saw a module.
We're gonna kind of pull some
of those concepts together, and
let you play around with that.
You can either go to that
very first thing we did with,
in our case right now is cheese puffs.
Could be anything.
I have a version down here.
In any given Scratch project,
we can go in and remix it as well.
I'm gonna use just one that
we had earlier, but again,
there is a starter here if you
don't have that one, either.
So, this is again some of
the initial code that we had.
What I want to do is, like I said before,
bunches of what you can make.
You can make games, you could also
make full interactive stories.
That when the green flag is clicked,
it starts off a story where maybe one
character walks in says something,
the other character waits,
then does the other thing, right?
So there's gonna be a certain amount
of like notified, you can try to
get the timing perfect, where everything's
always just the precise amount of time, or
you can have various messages get
broadcast, so on and so forth.
So if, for instance,
we wanted to have the cheese
puffs respond back.
So let's say when I click Arnold,
he says something, right?
And then, when Arnold responds,
then I want the opposite to happen, right?
And so, or
like I want the cheese puffs to respond
after Arnold is done talking, right?
But Arnold can't control the cheese puffs,
all Arnold could do is
broadcast a message.
So, let's see how that plays out.
So we'll go over here, and we'll say,
we'll just throw at a different event.
We'll say, when this Sprite is clicked
We'll say, hello for two seconds.
One Mississippi, two Mississippi great.
But now I want the cheese puffs to
respond, because what's the point
of talking to cheese puffs if
they don't talk back, right?
So what we would do here is, we go ahead
and we go into these events, which is,
say hello for two seconds,
then we gonna broadcast the message.
And I'm gonna add a new message saying,
Arnold said hello.
You can call whatever you want, right?
It doesn't matter.
Cool, so then what we're gonna do is,
you're gonna say hello for
two seconds, and then we are going to
broadcast the message to the rest of
the sprites that haven't said hello.
Here's the thing that
broadcasts a message.
If you broadcast a message and nobody's
listening, it doesn't matter, right?
Our event's firing the DOM all the time.
So then, we need to program the opposite,
which is,
when the cheese puffs hear the message,
they respond, right?
What should the cheese puffs respond with?
Yes.
>> I'm Puffy.
[LAUGH]
>> I'm puffy, all right.
The cheese puffs will respond with,
I'm puffy.
Cool, so we'll go to the cheese puffs now,
and we'll say, when I receive,
Arnold said hello, we'll have them
respond back, say, I am puffy
For two seconds.
Cool, so let's try it out.
We'll click on Arnold.
Hello?
I am Puffy.
Right, so it's a way to like create
interaction between two sprites by
broadcasting a message.
This could be, okay, if Evad catches Dave,
broadcast game over, right?
And throw a game over screen, which is
a sprite that just overlays everything,
it says game over, right?
Or if Dave eats ten tacos,
broadcast you win.
You win sprite, placed over the cat, well,
I should do that in a later game,
so don't worry.
But there's various uses for
building a story.
For maybe if you wanna have buttons
that do different things you can do,
when the button is clicked, start the
game, instead of the green flag, right?
So there's an initial screen, there's
all sorts of stuff that you can do.
But to do this, you need to kind of
announce things to all the sprites, and
they can listen for those things,
and react accordingly, right?
But you both need to send a message, and
you need sprites that
are ready to receive them.